-ly;Minimise '-ly' words...;Too many adverbs end in '-ly'. Consider 'he abruptively stepped down to use his early thoughts to simply some the problem, most likely'. They can be seen far too often and nobody wants to always think 'everything-ly'.
-ing;Minimise '-ing' words...;Too many verbs get an '-ing'. Consider 'he was stepping on the wrong line, promoting less understanding of what he wanted to be achieving'. They can be seen far too often and nobody wanted to always have the added 'ing'.
some;Minimise 'some';adj (few): a few, any, a bit, a little, part of|adj (extraordinary): special, bizarre, remarkable, unusual|adj (a little): few, any, several|pronoun (any): a few, a number, a part, a portion, an amount, more or less
sometimes;Minimise 'sometimes';adv (every now and then): at intervals, at times, ever and again, every so often, from time to time, here and there, naw and again, now and then, off and on, on occasion, once in a blue moon, once in a while
something;Minimise 'something';noun (entity): object, article, commodity, existence, existent, individual, substance
someone;Minimise 'someone';noun (dignitary): character, leader, official, star, VIP, bigwig, celebrity, eminence, lion, luminary, nabob, notability, notable, personage, big gun, big kahuna, bigshot, person of influence, top cat
somewhere;Minimise 'somewhere';adv (in, or at some place): around, elsewhere, here and there, someplace, somewheres, about, any old place, around somewhere, in once place or another, parts unknown, scattered, someplace or another, someplace or other
somewhat;Minimise 'somewhat';adv (to some extent): a little, far, kind of, pretty, quite, rather, in part, more or less, not much, ratherish, sort of, to a degree, well
somebody;Minimise 'somebody';noun (person of farm, importance): someone, whoever, VIP, celebrity, dignitary, heavyweight, luminary, name, notable, one, personage, so-and-so, star, superstar, household name, public figure, some person
somehow;Minimise 'somehow';adv (by some means): anyway, after a fashion, anyhow, anywise, by hook or crook, come what may, in one way or another, in some such way, in some what, one way or another, somehow or another, somehow or other
very;Minimise 'very';It is a lazy word people drop into, rather than say 'it rained with very intense sounds of drops' you can say 'it rained with the most intense sounds of drops' to be more descriptive of how good it sounds
just;Minimise 'just';It is a lazy word people drop into, rather than say 'it just dropped from the shelf' you could do a better description for it, such as 'it didn't stop as it hit the top of the desk, it slid along to fall off the other side'
that;Minimise 'that';This is an extra word, you can describe what something is, and what is happening, better without the need for 'that'
then;Minimise 'then';It is a very repetitious word, rather avoid using it in your novels as much as you can.|adv (before, at another time): again, later, next, all at once, anon, at that instant, at that moment, at that point, at that time, before long, on that occasion, soon after, thereupon, when, years ago|adv (therefore): so, thus, ergo, from that time, from then on, from there on, hence, thence, thenceforth, thereupon, whence
next;Minimise 'next';It is a very repetitious word, rather avoid using it in your novels as much as you can.|adj (coming immeditely after in space, time order): later, adjacent, after, alongside, atached, back-to-back, beside, close, closest, consequent, coterminous, hard by, nearest, on the side, proximate, side-by-side, subsequent|adv (imediately after in time, space, order): afterward, later, after, afterwhile, behind, by and by, next off, thereafter
start;Minimise 'start';This is unnecesarry unless there is an interruption to the action that soon occurs, so you can avoid it most times.
begin;Minimise 'begin';This is unnecesarry unless there is an interruption to the action that soon occurs, so you can avoid it most times.
began;Minimise 'began';This is unnecesarry unless there is an interruption to the action that soon occurs, so you can avoid it most times.
begun;Minimise 'begun';This is unnecesarry unless there is an interruption to the action that soon occurs, so you can avoid it most times.
rather;Minimise 'rather';adv (moderately): a bit, a little, kind of, pretty, enough, in a certain degree, more or less, ratherish, so-so, sort of, tolerably|adv (dignificantly): somewhat, very, well, a good bit|adv (preferably, instead): sooner, as a matter of choice, by choice, by preferance, first, in lieu of, in preference
quite;Minimise 'quite';adv (completely): altogether, all, all in all, all told, in all respects, in fact, in reality, in toto, in truth, just, well, without reservation|adv (to a certain extent): pretty, rather, somewhat, very, far, more or less, to some degree
said;Minimise 'said';To avoid dialog whitespace rather use any other very. Such as 'She asked', 'He shouted', 'She whispered', 'He mumbled', or perhaps 'She bellowed in triumph', 'He exclaimed in pain'.|Use less dialog items that are pointless, make them have more meaning.|Have characters use each other's names regularly, and make them do something regularly in their vocal action.
replied;Minimise 'replied';To avoid dialog whitespace rather use any other very. Such as 'She asked', 'He shouted', 'She whispered', 'He mumbled', or perhaps 'She bellowed in triumph', 'He exclaimed in pain'.|Use less dialog items that are pointless, make them have more meaning.|Have characters use each other's names regularly, and make them do something regularly in their vocal action.
asked;Minimise 'asked';To avoid dialog whitespace rather use any other very. Such as 'She asked', 'He shouted', 'She whispered', 'He mumbled', or perhaps 'She bellowed in triumph', 'He exclaimed in pain'.|Use less dialog items that are pointless, make them have more meaning.|Have characters use each other's names regularly, and make them do something regularly in their vocal action.
down;Minimise 'down';This is usually unnecesary, consider 'I sat down on the floor' isn't a better sentence than 'I sat on the floor'. We know it is 'down'.
up;Minimise 'up';This is usualy unnecesary, consider 'I got up from the floor' you could rather use 'I stood up, stumbled a bit, went through the room'.
wonder;Minimize 'winder';When using this term you take the reader away from the introspection to use a useless word. For example 'I wondered if Sidd was the murderer' might be a thought 'was Sidd the murderer'
ponder;Minimize 'ponder';When using this term you take the reader away from the introspection to use a useless word. For example 'ponder' might be a thought 'the actual thought pattern that it made me go through'
think;Minimize 'think';When using this term you take the reader away from the introspection to use a useless word. For example 'think' might be a thought 'the thoughts themselves being described to the reader'
thought;Minimize 'thought';When using this term you take the reader away from the introspection to use a useless word. For example 'thought' might be a thought 'the ideas that are the thoughts described'
feel;Minimize 'feel';When using this term you take the reader away from the introspection to use a useless word. For example 'feel' might be a thought 'the actual feeling as it occurs'
felt;Minimize 'felt';When using this term you take the reader away from the introspection to use a useless word. For example 'felt' might be a thought 'the actual feelings that were felt described as the past feeling'
understand;Minimize 'understand';When using this term you take the reader away from the introspection to use a useless word. For example 'understand' might be a thought 'to point out the thought sunk in and it was understood'
realize;Minimize 'realize';When using this term you take the reader away from the introspection to use a useless word. For example 'realize' might be a thought 'the description of how it is as the realisation of something'
breath;Minimise 'breath';These are too commonly used, consider rather find a different way to describe the breathing action
breathe;Minimise 'breathe';These are too commonly used, consider rather find a different way to describe the breathing action
inhale;Minimise 'inhale';These are too commonly used, consider rather find a different way to describe the breathing action
exhale;Minimise 'exhale';These are too commonly used, consider rather find a different way to describe the breathing action
shrug;Minimize 'shrug';People generally get stuck using this too many times.
nog;Minimize 'nod';People generally get stuck using this too many times.
reach;Minimize 'reach';People generally get stuck using this too many times.
of;Minimise certain 'of';Sure, less 'of' in general is better, but definitely try avoid 'sort of', 'kind of', and the likes
like;Minimise 'like';We can use a more descriptive way to attach what we describe. Such as 'he held the bat like a heavy weight' could rather be 'the bat weighed down on his grip as if it was too heavy'
is;Minimise 'is';Usually we can minimise the use of the word 'is'. Consider 'That is a sentence' versus 'That's a sentence'.